---
slug: build-a-site-with-docusaurus
title: Docusaurus is pretty awesome
authors:
  name: Yun Ji
  url: https://github.com/actuallyyun
  image_url: https://github.com/actually.png
tags: [blog, docusaurus]
---

I applied for MLH's fall fellowship, and it asked for my portfolio site. 

I have one that's hosted on Github Pages, but it's been a while since I worked on it. I was trying to update it, but really struggled with Jkyll. To run the site locally, I had to install Ruby, a version manager for Ruby, a Bundler and some other things. 

To be able to run the site locally while working on it is absolutely crucial for productivity's sake. 

Then I remembered Docusarus from the documentation site of Open Beta. Recently I updated some of OB's documentation and had a really good time working with the code. 

After some very quick digging, I realized that Docusarus is perfect for my use-case: it's node based, uses tools I am already familiar with and love using. It's lightweight(in comparision to `Next.js`) and can be deployed to Github Pages as well.

I spent about an hour or so playing with it, and successfully deployed it to GH pages and it's live! 

Comparing to the other times when I tried to set up a blog, `Docusarus` is very easy to use and well-documented. 

For this project, I try to follow an iterative approach. Meaning building an end to end product as soon as possible, then incrementally improve it. 

Today what I did was:

- Step 1: deploy a live blog
- Step 2: add basic personalized styling
- Step 3: the very first post(this one!)


